Mapping with mobile robots is a challenging problem for two main reasons.
First, the map and poses are both unknown to the robot.
In localization lessons, we assumed the known map and aim to estimate the robots pose.
Now, the map is unknown to us,
so we'll either have to assume known poses and estimate the map or
assume unknown poses and estimate the map and the poses relative to it.
Estimating the map on unknown poses is
a challenging problem because of the large number of variables.
This can be solved using the occupancy grid mapping algorithm.
Even more challenging, is to estimate the map and the poses relative to it,
which will be covered under SLAM in the upcoming lessons.
Second, the hypothesis space is huge.
The hypothesis space is the space of all possible maps that can be formed during mapping.
This space is highly dimensional since maps are defined over a continuous space,
especially, when the robots are deployed in
open environments where they'll have to sense an infinite number of objects.
The occupancy grid mapping algorithm presents a discrete approximation of the map.
But even under this discrete approximation,
the space of all possible maps would still be high.
So the challenge is to estimate the full posterior map,
for maps with high dimensional spaces.
The base filtering approach that we use in
localization to estimate the posterior pose will
diverge and an extension to it should be
used in mapping to accommodate for the huge hypothesis space.
Moving on to difficulties in mapping.
To map an environment,
we need information about walls and objects.
For example, we can deploy a mobile robot with a laser range finder sensor,
like the one you used for localization project.
The robot collects sensory information
which permits it to detect obstacles in the environment.
By using one of the mapping algorithms,
we can group this data into a resulting map.
In this example, we see that there are several possible data represented by
instantaneous maps that the robot has to combine in order to estimate the actual map.
This problem is not as easy as you might think,
as there are many difficulties while mapping an environment.
The first difficulty is the size of the environment.
Mapping large areas is hard because of the large amount of data to be processed.
The robots on-board micro-controller has to
collect all the instantaneous poses and obstacles,
then form a resulting map and localize the robot with respect to this map.
Also, the mapping problem becomes even more
difficult when the size of the map is larger than the robot's perceptual range.
But that's only part of the problem.
Noise always exists in perception sensors,
audiometry sensors, and actuators.
During mapping, we must always filter the noise from these sensors and actuators.
With large noise, mappings becomes more difficult and challenging as this noise adds up.
Perceptual ambiguity is another difficulty in mapping.
The ambiguity occurs when two places looks alike,
and the robot must correlate between
these two places which the robot travel through at different points in time.
Another difficulty in mapping occurs when a robot travels in a cyclic manner,
for example, going back and forth in a corridor.
When traveling in cycles,
robot audiometry incrementally accumulates error.
And at the end of the cycle,
the error is quite large.